Todays topic - space and time complexity 
So space complexity tells about that what is the Hey Cortana OK using the temporary variable so for ABC four into twelve three twelve by sub....the program of optimized survey so no
urveizedim OPT of program the andenceergn sub by twelve three twelve four intoBC Afor  soable variaryor four into twelve three twelve by submergence and the program of optimized survey so no


hey cortana minimum space requirement

It is a time complexity as many it is a CPU time required to execute the program The program is now what happens time complexity is calculated both integer mail and writing the same process inferior mail and suppose I'm picking well what I can do I can I will find out the maximum so I will take the interior delete that one I think that it may be sorted it may be unsolved So we needed OK if you put a positive enter the problem away Angela David perfect Harry so for that again I will use that for me for 5 people to kill I use then equal to so we have less than N in Christmas maybe you just scan it and I will take the same weight and I will next next is again I will use the formal and first I will declare that maximum equal to 80 I will take them maximum equal to a 0 there are the different approaches that we can do you can initially that we need like the Max is equal to 0 Yeah a zero Max is equal to a zero AB to find a maximum of the element and after that so beer for no fault I wish for the translator

Hey next elegant from the next element so my I is equal to one so bailey than tent a good what I will do I will check leave 

Oh yeah what we did that's the system for them When the this condition falls we will come out of the forum and Max is equal to next and next available next now when we calculate the time complexity so walking out to consider you have to consider only four logic of the algorithm of the pro printer enter the I want to take Slowly half minutes like that helping second speed is not cool 30 into ten 300 a busy person with tablings with so 5 million somebody alpha typing will work second next number into play YouTube So I put 10 numbers in a baby you have three 100 seconds 10 seconds a scarlet left foot and hurricane algorithm and everything algorithm and here written an algorithm to find the maximum of the array for one second 300 seconds but whenever I'm taking the keyboard my typing slow because of that I require the so that's why whenever you are calculating the time complexity so all the IO operators call the highway for bio operations whenever you are taking the in that CPU is not even if you know the concept of simultaneous query there are online Calculation or CPU used in your program so that time should be calculated and that is the time for the I already come between the truck Hey Cortana only for the CPU time calculated there is a time conversation so that's what is very important the time complexity of the algorithm is the amount of fixing time it takes to run to complete the particular program we have 4 yeah I you seem not again before the era of heroin and then we traverse the array we scan the each and every element of the array and we say that if the next number is greater than the Max number then you have to get the Max 434 There is a and the timer so I am timing required time required will be required time will be animal inst So The midnight time complexity so I typing and in IO operations it means not required So whatever the core logic is there the score logic with no time whatever the time is required by CPU to complete that portal that is the time suppose we are doing the addition of the network system the peloton A and BC is equal to A plus B So how to make that is C integral to April 3 suppose three by three metrics is there so we will take all the nine unit for three metrics Then we will take all the nine elements for the free In this way we may have the 9:00 AM for A and who skip up very when I will have another her J yes BAV so They learning so only again we will start a time in here and we will end the time in here and time required for this particular algorithm will be minus I love you So how you calculate from starting the timer I can complete the program and I will involve any data CPU OK So


so when the logic cooms start the timer and stop when logic is completed and dont invlove input and output as it does not include cpu

Hey Cortana and and so fix part and you can follow the variable part so so now what happens if I declare the array hundred of size tail so for 10 days hundred five then it will cost hundred so obviously many people for the other 10 and which array of then you follow the variable so that is for the instance of the problem the instance of the problem then anything input anything input or input for the input service So execution time depends upon the input size or the input so that is called the variable variable Next part pitch park is the Bombay legend of the company and so open again How beautiful she doesn't So compilation timing Timing 1000 more staying there will be compilation time is fixed that is the size of the But when time it changes because the executive I less than equal to and so vertex index is correct So what are the comparison timing required that is the free spot or the timing the second thing is that once you compile the program so compile OK well I'm getting better So what happens when you are calculating the time complexity this comparison time with the fixed fixed part is ignoble so we are focusing when we are calculating and complexity we are focusing on the variable path So variable part will depend upon the size of variable partner depend upon the signs of the input that is called an instance characteristics table so that everything is written here now when we are calculating the time complexity so those are the nonjectable statements are the non executable statement so Will be so I will take the example this thing will be clear So all this thing is written whatever I have told so this example I will fail here How to uh we will be given the snippet small code segment and it will be asked for in the technical test also you are asked to calculate the time algorithm algorithm to calculate and you have google but stay but stay so we are governed linearly algorithm some of that this some of that are elegance so some a is the you know whenever the array is fast array always the address of the possibility or starting address of the and and any the number of elements you have to clear in it whenever the arrays pass through any function pass the address of the starting address of the Now next is the so some finish lies to zero then for I is equal to one to N OK so to the pseudo code we are now taken in a programming language so for IG3112 this formula will execute for advice and S is equal to S plus A or R OK logic I think suppose it is the sum of the array elements S value how to calculate the time complexity now So that's why if you remember yesterday in the characteristics of characteristics at least one into should be there So so input zero for input can be there output 1 outputs will be there at least then finiteness each and every statement will be clear and it is performance specific job or instruction for 80s instruction we have multiple so every instruction should be cleared and it should be finite so it's a we uh what what happens statement for execution to a function call to considering the way the consent form to bear the zero then curly brace curly brace will be zero There is any problem 0.09 so assignment statement one statement everything total so that steps for ignition one No 4 I is equal to one to 10 but I didn't want to end what lovely we are comparing the value of we are comparing the value of R so every time in this forum compare the value of I so we are having the comparison so one statement is there then S is equal to S plus a of I again one statement is there now written next one statement is the one nuclear mistakes for a decision neglect nanoistic frequency scale frequency the next column is the frequency the electoral zero is the second is that no S is equal to SS is equal to 0.0 frequency will be one now just tell me how many times qualify and first one time It never includes yoga Advent all in Very important He's a beautiful day Next time Google since they pre presented eight representative nine presented we can less than equal to 10 then when it will come together so 11 is not less than equal to three then we should be small problem which is taken by 11 but take another definition when it is not your condition that I not less than equal to N and condition is false and goes to the so for a look he never in all of you then S is equal to S plus a of R condition is true so the only Problem really difference so and then total corrosion step for execution in equation you'll ask for a move from a big basically to 2N +3 what is the time Let's see before So normally when you Because if the values of any varying need one so but then I'm having a value of N is equal to 1000 so in that case two into 1000 into 2000 plus 3003 increases very large or Again same thing this coefficient is also so always a time for the city shown like this all the coefficient addition terms all these are value in terms of Agar it is like this If it is given like that That we stand in and then the more terms are there in polynomials of N the hard terms ignore so oh I am picking up all the type of example that will be REPL Nobody can like we spend a little bit can we use the iterations or other than so you are using the recursion so algorithm are some means recursive some so again same array some of the array limits same thing is there Now if N is less than equal to zero then return zero OK and else return R sum a N - 1 plus A of N I think it should be N is less than zero Can you help me with it from the Internet because all in this album they are taking the the midwife they have taken the index from one arika index one year previous algorithm is index 2 minute Akka index for I is equal to one to this this may be unnecilia hai I want to back up Yeah how many supports array like this woman movie so that man will permit so How you will get the terms attract Ilson is equal to an minus one means total total uh element is equal to four total elements are four so I mean 33 element so a N - 1 that this last element will be three plus are some then this then two plus add play 10 - 1 so N - 1 means that we have 3 - 1 total size is four or 3 - 1 it will be sorry so and here now value and is free so 3 - 1 is equal to two then again here 2 - 1 means it will be one so look at this then al sum is equal to so again it will be represented at add some and value of the first element is 1 + 1 and K 1 - 1 0 then he didn't zero then value of any less than equal to zero then return zero so now zero return so 0 + 1 + 2 + V + 4 in this little bit sum of the So 4 - 1 is three in Scotland is expensive 3 - 1 2 then when this is expanded to factorial 1 1 1 4 so last element then some of the array element up to the previous index May someone get happy and Bless some of the previous animals when you leave We were 10 many films

hey Cortana

Let's give a. Foot. II will go to the starting first stage. Then if. Value of a is 33 is greater than equal to 09. Then equal to a. Now value of name is 33 - 1 makes two. Going maybe two plus. So value of N is true, two is less than equal to zero. Again it will come to the S part. Again it will call a N - 1. So 2 - 1 we. Next year. What is the value of 2? Play. Don't believe it has been. It will be definitely in. No The next thing we can put 1 -, 0 value of one is 1 1 - 0. That is the 1 -, tommy 1 -, 1. The 1 -, 1 is the. What? Statement for execution. 


Then Gosket.Very, very, very comfort. Addition of two matrices. Addition of two matrices does work through the first problem, second problem and follow. ABC are the Midrashic week, M growth and end columns. समझ में आ रहा है। नहीं समझ में आ रहा था। एडिशन ऑफ टू मैट्रेसेस इट इज़ द प्रोग्राम एम्बो दैट एंड पॉलिसी। स्टेटमेंट फॉर एग्ज़िक्यूशन फर्स्ट लाइन में नो स्टेटमेंट इज़ देर 00 वी आरवी आर कन्फर्मिंग द वैल्यू ऑफ आर ओके सो दैट इज़ द वन स्टेटमेंट इज़ देर ऑर वन स्टेट इज़ देर जे के वाली भी हम कंपेर कर रहे हैं वन्स स्टेटमेंट ऑफ वन स्टेट इज़ देर अगेन वी अरे डूइंग दी एडिशन ऑफ दिस पर्टिकुलर एंड बी आई एम स्टोरी यू सी तो वन्स सेट इज़ देर एंड देन फर्स्ट कॉलोनीज़ की है। फर्स्ट कॉलम सबको सेकंड फ्रीक्वेंसी फर्स्ट विल बी द डेस्ट नाउ जस्ट वुड आई टोल्ड इन दी प्रीवियस एग्जाम्पल आएगी पर 212 एम। तो ये कितने बार एग्ज़िब्यूट होगा? एम। +1 उनकी वो फॉल्स कंडीशन भी उसको चेक करना है तभी तो पता चलेगा कंडीशन इज़ नॉट ट्रू दट्स व्हॉट पॉसिबल कुड नॉट बी एक्सक्यूटिव तो लास्ट वैल्यू ऑफ एन आई इज़ एन तो वो कितने बार? नाउ देन फ़ॉर जे इज़ इक्वल टू कितने बार एक्सक्यूट होगा? फर्स्ट फॉर्म में है। सो हाउ एनी टाइम? ओके प्रॉब्लम। तो मैंने और कंडीशन टू ओनली दो तीन वन समझ में आया वो? और नीचे वाले की क्या होगी फ्रीक्वेंसी? ये क्यों है? सो देन इट विल कम मी। ओके, तो एयर क्योंकि। इसका एग्जीक्यूशन कितने बार है? एम प्लस। एम इंडो एन। +1 लेकिन ये इसके अंदर स्टेटमेंट भी कितने बार आ जाएगा? व्हेन ओनली द कंडीशन इज़? मतलब? येस ऑल दी थ्री वैल्यू 1+1 एंड इंटू एम प्लस एन +1 ओनली। देन ओनली। ये क्लियर है सर। समझ गया बहुत क्रिटिकल रहता है। यू आर डूइंग दैट स्टेट सर? लुक एट दिस। टू इंटू एमएन +2 एंड +1 जस्ट आई फुल दैट वी शुड ब्रेकिंग अप। अगर सपोज़ हमारा +2 एन +1 अगर हमारा रेंट बैंक में। इसमें भी क्या है? समझ में है। सिंपल इफ। test case dinon ke liye. V Omega.



Then Gosket.Very, very, very comfort. Addition of two matrices. Addition of two matrices does work through the first problem, second problem and follow. ABC are the Midrashic week, M growth and end columns. समझ में आ रहा है। नहीं समझ में आ रहा था। एडिशन ऑफ टू मैट्रेसेस इट इज़ द प्रोग्राम एम्बो दैट एंड पॉलिसी। स्टेटमेंट फॉर एग्ज़िक्यूशन फर्स्ट लाइन में नो स्टेटमेंट इज़ देर 00 वी आरवी आर कन्फर्मिंग द वैल्यू ऑफ आर ओके सो दैट इज़ द वन स्टेटमेंट इज़ देर ऑर वन स्टेट इज़ देर जे के वाली भी हम कंपेर कर रहे हैं वन्स स्टेटमेंट ऑफ वन स्टेट इज़ देर अगेन वी अरे डूइंग दी एडिशन ऑफ दिस पर्टिकुलर एंड बी आई एम स्टोरी यू सी तो वन्स सेट इज़ देर एंड देन फर्स्ट कॉलोनीज़ की है। फर्स्ट कॉलम सबको सेकंड फ्रीक्वेंसी फर्स्ट विल बी द डेस्ट नाउ जस्ट वुड आई टोल्ड इन दी प्रीवियस एग्जाम्पल आएगी पर 212 एम। तो ये कितने बार एग्ज़िब्यूट होगा? एम। +1 उनकी वो फॉल्स कंडीशन भी उसको चेक करना है तभी तो पता चलेगा कंडीशन इज़ नॉट ट्रू दट्स व्हॉट पॉसिबल कुड नॉट बी एक्सक्यूटिव तो लास्ट वैल्यू ऑफ एन आई इज़ एन तो वो कितने बार? नाउ देन फ़ॉर जे इज़ इक्वल टू कितने बार एक्सक्यूट होगा? फर्स्ट फॉर्म में है। सो हाउ एनी टाइम? ओके प्रॉब्लम। तो मैंने और कंडीशन टू ओनली दो तीन वन समझ में आया वो? और नीचे वाले की क्या होगी फ्रीक्वेंसी? ये क्यों है? सो देन इट विल कम मी। ओके, तो एयर क्योंकि। इसका एग्जीक्यूशन कितने बार है? एम प्लस। एम इंडो एन। +1 लेकिन ये इसके अंदर स्टेटमेंट भी कितने बार आ जाएगा? व्हेन ओनली द कंडीशन इज़? मतलब? येस ऑल दी थ्री वैल्यू 1+1 एंड इंटू एम प्लस एन +1 ओनली। देन ओनली। ये क्लियर है सर। समझ गया बहुत क्रिटिकल रहता है। यू आर डूइंग दैट स्टेट सर? लुक एट दिस। टू इंटू एमएन +2 एंड +1 जस्ट आई फुल दैट वी शुड ब्रेकिंग अप। अगर सपोज़ हमारा +2 एन +1 अगर हमारा रेंट बैंक में। इसमें भी क्या है? समझ में है। सिंपल इफ। test case dinon ke liye. V Omega.

And crickets. What is the meaning of this? Worst case means it is the upper limit for the time required to execute any algorithm which is up for meaning. It is the upcoming 78 and 9. So worst case when I'm selfie I may get statement at the floor coaching and I will negate the element. 1944 No, go ahead. The area sir that is the first turn the whole array so that is the maximum. Get a maximum time. Because that we can be here. Now we can get the maximum time before the payment in the that is up for limit. Example of that is the linear. The key element is at the classroom Uski, Jyaada, Lagega, he. Base kiss. Best kiss? My key event is the 4, my key element is the 4. Ek ke baad Mein hota hai kya mujhe aage scan karne Ki jarurat nahi hai. First time he find out or so It is the worst case upper limit and it is the lower limit. It is the upper limit and it is the lower limit. Jisase jyaada nahi lag sakta hai aur isase Kam toh nahi lag sakte hai kyonki koi bhee aaj Mein AA rahe hai. Best face aur minimum time required toh it is a best case means the lowest time required. Normally and worst case so i am getting here thinking maybe like that the eliminating K so I will have. Search for compare for it can be between the base stage and the worst case yes. What is the worst case maximum time per million is the data lagi nahi Sir. Toh vaise enough what is the meaning of? Not allowed. So maximum we get values. Aapke ismein kya kanpur K Maharashtra Mein petrol Mahindra hai. AUR. So what is the meaning of this maximum transmission pass petrol ke pass our blood transport cost. Usase jyaada nahi lagta lekin uske niche bhee Agar dena nahi tha wo state ka achchha koi deta nahi lekin wo koi koi ismein dekha hai naa haan discount dekhte hai. Job bhee karte hai discount kuchh shopping karte hai discount matlab unko usme bhee topic hai loss nahi hai. Unhone extreme case condition karte jaise net give me one hour, that's enough. Usne unhone save kiya hai Ki maximum isase jyaada nahi hota. Whisky uski manufacturing past 3rd bhee kaisa. Mukhit ne milati hai hamne. 06 gig mil diya toh uska 3015. Market. Paanch rupay k dpr dus rupaye mein beche wo bhee paanch rupay so that's all that's this property so whenever we come up with the algorithm, so when we come up with the new job, the toh mujhe kya friend karna hai Ki ye best time complexity mere husband kiye the worst case kiye the aur in case ye hai toh koi bhee compare karega toh kya dekhega bas K dekhiye. Varsh Ki kitani. Uplok itane importance hai varsh K stand comfort city ko kyonki usme apni sabse banaya aur usne kya input diya hai achchhe chain food die honge toh Kam hoga isliye hai input meri nahi toh mujhe hamesha varsh K stem complexity Ki jagah algorithm toh. Because I said that they are the importance of. So. These are the notations. These are the donations declare Sabko. Yes ye dikha hai agar aapki dimag mein ye dad so yahaan se start karungi F of 10 is equal to. Big of your end. So when I'm writing at least F of n. Is equal to 34 so F of is again a function positive function and any way into and again. Function. So these are the function. So if open is, there's the actual time complexity, Actual time complexity of the. And your fan is some function on F some polynomial function of n Job Panneerselvam polynomial function on L It may be b dot north square north to the polynomial function. Then we can like that any function of. So yet any function on that is there and this is the actual Nan complexity function for the algorithm. So when we are saying the F of anything so. When is smoke? F of North it is true only uh, if and only if this person pay. You can only keep. Hey, Cortana is less than equal to 3 * 0 time. For some positive constant. Some positive constant. Call Stones. And in zero such that. And is always greater than one to 10. So. So always. Always. Yeah, how equal to this first time positive constant 3 and the end zero like that n is greater than equal to for example as you say, an example for this so. Is less than equal to, equal to. Plus 2 this will be 3 and this will be 6. Yes for n is equal to one. This left hand side is less than equal to right hand side so it means function so it is always greater than so something what happens. So F of N. Please. He said that you can complain to me. So F of N is always less than C into G of north, C into G of north. But in initial values of north, initial values of north F of north may be the better than Q of north. But once this north zero is there, once we start from the north zero now onwards always. The value of Fer pen is always greater than the value of C into zero. It may possible that for release. But one. This value should be always less than this value. That is the upper bound first case. Now our best case. Best case Mein Ulta hai. This is your echo of an actual 10 conflict city and geopening the function on end. So it is the test case. So it is a lower bound so if your time complexity will be always greater than the F of north and average case number. I pop in is equal to Theta of g of n, so F of n will be always revealed. Always. Always there 10 complexity will be within. Upper bound and lower bound to this upper bound. This is the lower bound. Lekin worst case Mein best case Mein only lower down. April summit Mein AA Gaya. Aur average mein diagram is here. Samajh Mein AA raha hai. Be a notations hote hai aapko puchhate hai Ki wo tabhi notations. Haan example Liya. Based on the program. ABC. And d is equal to a plus b plus P plus 2 and return b. Here there is no inside or anything. Indexa kuchh nahi simple 3 variables hai capital 4th variant. So he has time for AAP usko 100th time bhee karte ho toh time will be fixed constant time itna thoda sa Agar aapka processor kaisa hai uske saath lekin same process lekin hare K programme bhee kiya hota hai Agar style. Time institution of 10 months difference of health of the. Ismein aisa kuchh nahi hai. Kyonki hamne liya he nahi hai. When the time publicity is constant. So they have been of an example before. One we go one Matlab. Uske baad. Hello. Then uh, before login. If you are having the support like this value of 10. I'm Ben login then then then login. Then end slap then and fill and then who is departing in this column and time competition like this. Toh Agar AAP login lete sabko value. Do the best to all their in the time compensatory calculation so this is the fixed part or this is the variable? Name. For mutation of your friend, you are very much when they will change. Ye bahut important slide hai. Go to the Skype. Most important step. It is a list of the subject or the. Hey cortana that complex algorithm is said to be correct. Eat for every input instant it holds with the correct output. Correct output Matlab kya. Would you launch correct lage Hain aur specific output bhee leta do when I given the program. Addition of the. Positive integer. 234 deti Hoon. Then if you review the answer, whatever 2 + 3 it should be the. If I am giving the zero number. Then if you give me the answer that please enter the college. We are doing the some of the positive increase so zero positive integer nahi aata hai. So when I'm getting the zero. So if you don't, you take it. It should tell us that please enter the valid number. So please enter the valid input. Unhen positive hai so please enter the value positive integral Agar Mein minus number dekhati Hoon algorithm ko again it should tune the message that please enter the valid positive increase. Samajh Mein hai. That is the meaning of correct out. Hasani Ki 2 + 35 dena hai muft per Tarikh ka uproot hai 10 + 2030. That is not the correct word. So when you could do the output and. A 2 integer BA to answer Lekin Agar negative integer. Unke liye bhee wo audition karke Agar aapne validation nahi rakha toh -3 plus minus. -38 will be the minus some of the project -5 answer dena he chaahiye. -2 and minus. That you are algorithm is here. So that would be very important correct what the algorithm is intended to do? Baki Ki niyamit nahi. That is the correct matlab khai milana hai. Invalid info ke liye bhee proper output dena chaahiye Ki kya karungi. Isilie Agar hum toh Gmail ka kaam bharate Hain Google form badhte Hain toh Agar email ID Mein hamne toh kaise de diya hai 123 aur ABC. So that's it. Happy Bhee correct algorithm. Agar Mein toh usne a BC ke liye Matlab. Phone number Ki jagah usne ABC le liya. So that is the meaning of correct also measure of efficiency speed. SAB algorithm KE time complexity Matlab Street. How long does an algorithm take to produce it to get? What is the meaning of time complexity? Define the formula methods of efficiency Matlab. Define define. Exist that in all the probability will take a long time to solve the problem. undefined problems ending Sol. Again there is a feet problems and entry problems, feet problems with which are solved in the polynomial organiser, tolerant person of the recruiters. What is the name of knee problems under NP problems? 3 problems stand for the problems which can be solved in the polynomial. Polynomial time is jaise b go up and b go up and login. The. Suppose if you are having the time compulsory explanation. This convolution means poorest to foreign or MLAs to foreign or any. AAP dekhiye Agar Mt value. 1,00,000. So in this one end of the pulling the $10 rupee and such therefore problem is called the NP problem means they are not executed in. Non vitamin C polynomial, non deterministic means. Traveling services problem kya hai phir he goes to all the cities it may be cities mein usko salesman, NE. Remaining 2 city hai toh koi bhee order nahi le sakta hai Ki Hans ke baad 3rd city 4th JA sakta hai. What is the constraint optim proudly segment problem samajh Mein aaya hai naa pravin toh itna optimization problems, optimization problem, minimization problem because we have to complete the 2000 so negative problem hai usmein har Ek combination hota hai it comes under dynamic hota hai toh usko har Ek combination karni dekhna padta hai jab hum Sol ko ghum ke liye Ki Agar Mein one one se kyon jaata Hoon 263 jaata Hoon what? So. Toh ismein kya hota hai Ki? Then 124 like that first calculator. Then us 2 city Ki calculate karega Agar mujhe baad 1102 and 3 jaana hai toh uski first kya hogi toh isliye 12 ticket one to 2 Ki pass kya kiya Ki hai wo he unin Agar? If i'm going like it from 123 and then i'm going to the terms takes about the 6. So that is the exponential problem. Aur pichhale type you are still employee algorithm. Phir saurabh that particular problem remove the amplitude of the CF. Uske liye koi algorithm Mein fix nahi. In the era of air and we guys grammar 2 and the. Everybody has received the list on the mail, yes. Haan lead code vaala.